# WordFinder

An application that exposes a REST API to find all the words that can be derived from the combination of an input of letters.

## Dependencies

WordFinder requires:

* Spring Context 4.3.12.Release
* Vert.x Web 3.5.0
* Vertx Dependent Verticle Deployer 1.0.1
* Vertx Spring Verticle Factory 1.0.2
* Log4j2 2.6.2
* Slf4j 1.7.21

## Required Software

To build the code maven version 3 and java 8 JDK are necessary.

## Building the application

On the command line execute:

> mvn clean package

The output of this build is found in the target directory

## Running tests

On the command line execute:

> mvn clean verify

## Installing the application

* Locate the zip file generated by the build (target/wordfinder-kit.zip) and decompress.

* Change directory to where the zip file was decompressed. We'll call this directory $WFD$.

## Configuring the application

**NOTE** The configuration properties (config.properties) for the application can be found in the $WFD$/config folder.

The application relies on several inputs for its normal execution:

* The file with the english words to be loaded (NOTE: If a word contains characters different from the range a-z and A-Z,
those characters will be ignored).

	The application includes by default a file in the config directory named **english_words.txt**. The contents of this file
are taken from <http://www-01.sil.org/linguistics/wordlists/english/wordlist/wordsEn.txt>.

	If a different file is needed, modify the config.properties file property **words.location**. The value should be a location
that it is accessible from within the running application. Because this property feeds a SpringFramework resource
it needs to denote a valid resource. Its default value is **classpath:english-words.txt**

* The points for letters. This is configured using the **letter.points** property within the config.properties.
This is a JSON-coded string. Its default value is:

```json
{
  "aeilnorstu" : 1,
  "dg" : 2,
  "bcmp": 3,
  "fhvwy" : 4,
  "k" : 5,
  "jx" : 8,
  "qz" : 10
} 
```

* The host to be used for the REST server. This is configured using the rest.server.host. Default value is localhost

* The port where the REST server will listen. This is configured using the rest.server.port. Default value is 8080

**NOTE** Changes to the config.properties made will only take effect the next time the application is executed.

## Running the application

**NOTE** For usability, files found within the $WFD$/config folder are part of the classpath.

* Change directory to $WFD$

* Locate the wordfinder.sh shell script. Make sure its executable flag(s) is(are) set.

* Run the script from the command line:

```text
> ./wordfinder.sh
```

## Exposed REST methods

### GET words/:letters

This GET method accepts one or more letters (regardless of case) to find all the possible combination of valid words.

It responds back with a JSON array of words (content-type : application/json).

Examples:

* Open your browser and point to http://localhost:8080/words/hat

	This will return

```json
["hat","ah","ha","th","at","a"]
```
* Open your browser and point to http://localhost:8080/words/zzz

	This will return

```json
[]
```

**NOTE** The search is not case sensitive to the input :letters and the characters in :letters not corresponding to the
range 'a'-'z' and 'A'-'Z' will be ignored
